---
title: Remote mining
contributed:
    name: slowmotionghost
    link: https://screeps.com/a/#!/profile/slowmotionghost
    date: 2017-08-23
---
This article is a beginner's guide to remote mining, and should provide ideas that can be worked towards, but leave the coding and implementation to you.

## What is remote mining?
Remote mining is the activity of harvesting [`Energy`](/api/#Resource) in rooms that are not owned by the player. To develop a productive economy, players should code a form remote mining to maximize their energy income. There are many ways to perform remote mining, some of which will be discussed in this article.

## Harvesting
In order to obtain energy from remote [`Sources`](/api/#Source), they need to be harvested, just like sources in owned rooms. Sources in unclaimed rooms provides 1500 energy per 300 ticks. If the room is reserved, this means the source provides 3000 energy per 300 ticks. This shows the clear benefit of reserving a room, however remote harvesting can still be profitable without use of reservation. 

The central 9 rooms of a sector cannot be reserved, and provide an energy output of 4000 energy per source, however they require more advanced code to deal with increased invasions and source keepers, which is out of the scope of this article. The regeneration time and energy capacity of these sources are [`constants`](/api/#Constants) that can be used in your code to prevent hard coding and promote good coding practise (specifically ENERGY_REGEN_TIME, SOURCE_ENERGY_CAPACITY, SOURCE_ENERGY_NEUTRAL_CAPACITY and SOURCE_ENERGY_KEEPER_CAPACITY). 

Each work part a [`Creep`](/api/#Creep) has can harvest 2 energy per tick ([`HARVEST_POWER`](/api/#Constants)), meaning a creep should have 5 work parts to fully harvest a source (in a reserved room). Depending on your collection method, a harvester may only require work and move parts, as energy harvested by a creep without a carry part is dropped and can be collected from the ground or a [`Container`](/api/#StructureContainer). 

It may be worth considering a carry part if your harvester creep will be used to repair buildings in the remote room (such as a container it is using) or your harvester creep will also be used to ferry the energy back to your storage. The latter method is simple to implement as it requires only one role or job, however it is less energy efficient to transport the work parts around, so having a dedicated harvester is worth considering.

## Collecting
Energy collection can be performed using the ground, containers or carry parts. The simplest method to implement is to let harvested energy fall on the ground, where it will sit and wait to be collected. However, be aware that dropped [`Resources`](/api/#Resource) decay at a rate of ceil(amount/1000) per tick giving a minimum cost of 1 energy per tick. Energy in containers does not decay, however the container itself decays at a rate of 5000 hits every 100 ticks (500 ticks in owned rooms). If we were to not repair the container and rebuild it every time it completely decayed, it would mean and investment of 5000 energy every 5000 ticks (250000 hits divided by 5000 hit decay, then multiplied by 100 for decay frequency) or 1 energy per tick, as well as loss from energy decay during downtime. 

Repairing costs 1 energy for 100 hits([`REPAIR_POWER`](/api/#Constants)), meaning repair costs 50 energy to cover the decay, every 100 ticks, at a cost of 0.5 energy per ticks. While there is still an initial investment to build the container, repairing it is clearly the cheapest method of collecting energy. If a container is used, the harvester needs to 'stand' on top of the container so energy drops into it (or have a carry part and transfer into it, although this will be more cpu costly).

## Transporting
Once energy is harvested, it needs to be transported back to your room so you can use it. This can be done by dedicated haulers or the creep used to harvest the energy. As mentioned, the latter is less efficient due to not getting use out of the work parts while the creep is hauling. Haulers should be made with MOVE and CARRY parts as a minimum, while some players use a single work part to repair [`Roads`](/api/#StructureRoad) (mentioned in the next section). The main choice for transportation is whether to use roads or not. roads decrease the fatigue generated by a creep. A rule of thumb for MOVE parts needed is half of the parts if a road is not being used, or a third if roads are being used. The cost to repair a road per tick is 1 energy every 1000 ticks (on plain terrain), which is significantly lower than the body part costs of the extra MOVE parts, so while harder to implement, roads are generally a worthwhile investment.

A more advanced requirement for transportation is tailoring creep size so efficiency remains high. If creeps are too large, body parts are wasted, but too small and total energy collection isn't achieved. This can be tackled a number of ways, with some players operating with a pool of full size haulers that serve all the remote sources, and adjust the population of this pool based on need. Other players use haulers assigned to each source and tailor body size to the distance a hauler has to travel to reach that particular source.

## Repairing and building
Repairing has been mentioned already in several sections, and will depend on the use of [`Structures`](/api/#Structure) in each room. If you and going to opt for not having structures in your remote rooms you don't need to worry about this. However, if you are going to make use of structures (roads and containers), it is important to repair them to prevent decay. Rebuilding is always more expensive than repair.

In order to repair a structure a creep needs energy and a work part. This could be achieved using a dedicated repairer, the harvester or the hauler. A dedicated repairer is likely the most efficient option of these, however the amount of these needs to be tailored to need to prevent wastage of body parts. Using a hauler to repair is useful as allows roads to be repaired as they are being used, meaning they are unlikely to decay. The harvester should ideally remain stationed at the source they are harvesting so if they are repairing, it should be the container they are sitting on. While the hauler and harvester will already have access to energy, a dedicated repairer will need to be coded to pick up energy, which can be taken from your storage, or from conveniently filled containers in the room requiring repairs. Obviously, in order to have a structure to repair, it needs to built. This could be performed by creeps that would repair. It may be useful to automate container building by the harvester, to ensure every harvester is collecting into a container (if that is the method you want to use).

## Reserving
As mentioned in the harvesting section, reserving rooms is key to making them profitable. In order to reserve a room, a creep needs to have at least one CLAIM part. Creeps that have CLAIM parts have a reduce lifetime of 500 ticks, meaning creeps with CLAIM parts should have MOVE and CLAIM parts only, other parts will be wasted as will have a reduced lifetime, so would be better used by another creep. Reservation can be performed constantly using a creep with one CLAIM part building the reserve timer up by 1 tick per tick ([`CONTROLLER_RESERVE`](/api/#Constants)), however the reserve timer decreases at the same rate that one CLAIM part increases it, meaning if you want to build up the timer you need at least 2 CLAIM parts. It would be worth considering using maximum sized reservers when a timer is below a certain amount, in order to save on cpu by having less reservers active on average at once. The maximum reserve time is 5000 ticks ([`CONTROLLER_RESERVE_MAX`](/api/#Constants)).

## Defending
[`Invasions`](/invaders.html) not only occur in your rooms, but also rooms that are being harvested. invasions only come from room exits to rooms that are not owned or reserved. In these rooms, it would be worth considering defending yourself against invasions. There are several options one could take. Firstly, you could do nothing and lose your creeps and profit of that room. Secondly, you could retreat out of that room, to prevent losing creeps. While these saved creeps will likely be excess to demands elsewhere, this prevents spawning new creeps that walk into the invaded room to die. Alternatively, you can respond to the invasions using soldiers. 

Discussing combat is outside of the scope of this article, but it is worth thinking how you will respond to these invasions. Spawning response units will take spawn and travel time, so some players have permanent guards stationed to reduce mining time lost. While this may be inefficient in the case of guards in every room, a guard in your main room covering several remote rooms may be worth the investment, depending on the size and type of the guard.

## Other things to consider
As you develop your code further, more advanced ideas could include:
- [`Source Keeper`](/api/#StructureKeeperLair) room mining
- Automated road construction
- Double-source miner (mines both sources in each room to save cpu).
